Documentation for Developers
Setup:
Before proceeding, make sure you have the Android SDK Installed.

If you haven't previously run an android application from Eclipse, you will need to setup an 
Android virtual device (avd), or plug an android device into your computer and run the application 
on it. The avd is quite slow, so we recommend an actual android device.

How to setup an Android virtual device: http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html?hl=sk

To use your own android device, you simply need to enable usb debugging in your settings menu, 
plug the phone into your computer and run an android application. The usb debugging option is 
hard to find on some devices, so use google if you cannot find it.

Our application requires the appcompat_v7 library, so please download the zip if you do not 
have it already.

Next, visit our download page to find the latest source code release.

Now import both projects into eclipse.

You will need to make sure eclipse knows that appcompat_v7 is a library, 
so right click on appcompat_v7 in the project explorer, then click properties > Android and 
verify that "is Library" is selected. Press ok, and right click on OneDrinkAway, 
then click properties > Android. In the Library window, you may see a Reference named ../../../.. 
with a red X next to it. If you do, select it and remove it. Then click Add, and add appcompat_v7 
as a library. Press Ok and the project should be ready to run.

Eclipse will automatically build the project for you, simply select the OneDrinkAway project 
in the Package Explorer, then select Project and enable 'Build Automatically'.

All the tests for our project can be found in src/com.onedrinkaway.test, to run a test, 
simply select it and click run as > JUnit test.

The installable version of an Android application is a .apk file. Eclipse automatically 
generates the apk for a project when it is run. The apk can be found in the bin folder 
of the project after it has been built and run. To install the program on an android device, 
simply copy the apk to it, navigate to the apk in a file explorer and select it. Android will 
install the program, and it can then be found in the device's launcher.

If you have developed additional features in the OneDrinkAway app, you are welcome to 
submit your changes to our project. First, generate a full suite of tests for the new features 
you have implemented, similarly to the tests found in the test package. Then export the project 
as a zip or tar, and send it to cse403gaia@u.washington.edu. A member of our team will 
get in contact with you regarding your work.

Our source code repository can be found here: https://github.com/teamGaia/OneDrinkAway

Directory Structure:

OneDrinkAway - Main project directory containing all code and resources
src - stores packages that contain source code
	com
		onedrinkaway
			app - stores source code for android app
			common - stores source code for classes used by other packages
			db - stores source code for the database
			machinelearning - stores source code for ML
			test - test suites for all packages
	res - stores resources files
		drawable-* - stores .png icons of various sizes.
		layout - stores XML files defining the layout of the app's UI
		menu - stores XML files defining the layout of the app's action bar
		values-* - stores variable names and values
	gen - stores generated files for all resources defined in res folder
	.settings - stores preferences file


Our bug tracker can found here:  https://github.com/teamGaia/OneDrinkAway/issues
The listings under the open tab are the list of outstanding 
bugs and the listings under the closed tab are the resolved bugs. In order to resolve a bug, you 
check the checkbox corresponding to the particular bug and hit the close button on the top toolbar.

Daily Build Setup:
The following instructions assume you have cloned our repository.
	
	To set up an automated daily build system, you will 
	first need to install Jenkins: http://jenkins-ci.org/
	and follow the instructions to get it set up on your machine. Next you will need to open Jenkins 
	and change the workspace directory to the OneDrinkAway repository. You do this by clicking 
	on "Manage Jenkins" -> "Configure System" then clicking on the "Advanced" button in the top 
	right. Change the "Workspace Root Directory" to point at your local repository.

Now we need to make a new project that will actually run the build. Click "New Item" (top left) and 
give the project a good name, and select "Build a free-style software project." Click ok then navigate 
down the page to the "Build" section and "Add build step." Select "Execute Windows Batch Command."
This will create a text box labeled "Command." Copy and paste: build.bat into the box. To schedule 
daily builds, check the "Build Periodically" box and then paste: H H 1-31 * * in the "Schedule" text box 

All that is left to do is click save and click on "Build Now" which will compile everything and run 
tests. The build status will be displayed on the left hand side of the page and detailed information 
about each build can be examined by clicking on the date next to the build number.

	Our build setup differs from the above step only in that we have email notification in case of a 
	failed build. To set up email notification, you will need to go to "Configure Project" then under 
	"Post Build Actions," "Add post-build action" then select "E-mail Notification." Add the desired 
	email recipients then navigate back to the Jenkins Dashboard. Once there go to 
	"Manage Jenkins" -> "Configure System" then scroll down to "E-Mail Notification" and hit advanced. 
	Fill out all the fields with the appropriate information. We use the gmail SMTP server with SMTP 
	authentication, SSL and port 465 as our SMTP port.