Documentation For Users
How to Run the Application
Simply open the application on your Android smart-phone or tablet, and the application will 
start. There are no customizations necessary. The application keeps track of who you are based 
on what device you are using.

UI Concept
The homepage of the application is based around a grid-layout in order to ease the navigation 
through the features for you. There are different modes in which to search for drinks, and the 
results of the search are a list of drinks that link to the recipes for each individual drink. 
From the home page, you can navigate to any feature, any of the individual searches, your 
favorites list, or the help menu. From any individual feature or page, you can always go back 
to the last page you were on, your search constraints will be saved if you go backwards from your 
search results in order to easily change your search. Also, from each individual page, you can 
navigate to the homescreen through the icon on the top toolbar.

Opening the Application
Upon opening the application, there is no need to log in because the application already 
knows who you are and has all of your information saved. If you are a new user, then you can 
start rating drinks and the application will remember you. If you close completely out of 
the application, all of your activity, such as the drinks that you have rated and the drinks 
that you have added to your favorites list will be saved for next time.

The home page will appear displaying an icon for each of our features. On the top navigation bar 
is the name of the page you are currently on, a home icon, and a help icon. The home icon can be 
selected from any screen in the application which will bring the user back to this home page. The
help icon (question mark) can be selected from any screen in the application to get more 
information about the screen you are currently viewing.

First Time Users
If this is your first time opening the application, a pop-up will appear asking you if you 
would like to rate some drinks to get started. If the user selects "Sure!" then they are taken
to a Rate Drinks Page with two option tabs, one is Rate Common Drinks, and the other is Search For 
Drinks. By default you are brought to the Rate Common Drinks tab. It displays a list of common 
drinks with stars next to them. Simply press on a star to give the drink that rating. For 
instance, pressing the fourth star would give the drink a rating of four. If you want to rate
a particular drink, select the Search For Drinks tab. A search bar and search button will appear. 
Enter its name in the search bar and select search. If the drink is found, its name will appear 
with stars next to it to rate it. If not, the page displays "No Results Found". If the user 
selects "No Thanks" then the pop-up closes. If the user selects "Why?", then a page explaining 
why our application gives better recommendations when you rate drinks is displayed.

Search By Name
To find a certain drink, select the "Search By Name" icon. The "Search by Name" page will 
appear. If you need help using this feature, select the help icon on the top navigation bar. 
At the top is a search bar where you can type in the name of the drink you are looking for. 
After entering a name, select the "Search" button. A results page will appear that displays 
all of the drinks that match your search results. See the "Results Page" section below for how 
to use the results page. If there are no drinks by the name that you searched, "No Results 
Found" will be displayed on the top of the Search By Name page. You can then edit your search.
If you simply want to look at all of our drinks, under the search bar is a list of all of our 
drinks in alphabetical order. Select a drink to view its Drink Info Page. The Drink Info Page 
is described below in the "Drink Info Page" section. If you go back, the same results will be 
displayed.

Search By Category
To find a drink that falls into a certain category, select the "Search by Category" icon.
The "Search by Category" page will appear. A series of icons will appear, each of which is 
a different category listed in alphabetical order. To get an explanation of how to use this 
feature, select the help icon. If you are unsure what a certain category is, press and hold 
down on it to get a description. After selecting a category, the results page will appear
which displays the drinks in that category. The drinks are displayed in order of how high 
we think you would rate them. This page has the same formatting as described in the 
"Results Page" section below. Select the drink to view its Drink Info Page. If you go back, 
the same search results will be displayed.

Search By Ingredients
To find a drink that contains certain ingredients, select the "Search by Ingredients" icon. 
This will then bring you to the "Search by Ingredients" page. To include an ingredient in your
search, select the checkbox next to it. If you do not want to scroll through the entire list of 
ingredients, then you may type an ingredient into the search bar at the top of the page. As 
you type, the ingredients list will be filtered to show only the ingredients that start with 
the letters that you have typed in the text box. Once you see the ingredient you are looking for,
you may check the check box from here. To see all the ingredients again, simply delete all of 
the letters you have typed from the textbox, and all of the ingredients that you have checked 
will remain. Once you have checked all of the ingredients that you want to have in your drink 
results, press the search button. This will lead you to the results page which will list only 
the drinks that contain the ingredients you checked in your search. These drinks will be listed 
from top to bottom based on what what we think you will like the most to what we think you 
will like the least. The results page has the same formatting as described below in the 
"Results Page" section. If you would like to change your search, you may go back from the 
result page at anytime. The ingredients you have checked will be saved for you to make changes, 
or you can clear all of your checked ingredients and start again. If no results are found, a 
"No Results Found" message is displayed at the top of the Search By Ingredients page so that 
you can edit your search criteria.

Search By Flavors
To find a drink that has a certain flavor profile, select the "Search by Flavors" icon. The 
"Search by Flavors" page will appear. On the "Search by Flavors" page, you will be given a list 
of flavors such as minty, sweet, spicy, etc... and each flavor will be associated with its own 
Seek Bar which is originally set to zero. To include a flavor in your search, check the checkbox 
next to its name. You may then move the Seek Bar of that flavor from 0 to 5 which corresponds to 
that flavor's complexity in your drink search. Zero means no flavor intensity, five means maximum 
intensity. You may leave a flavor at 0 depending on your preference. Once you press the "Search" 
button, the Results Page will appear with a list of drinks corresponding to your flavor 
preferences listed from top to bottom in the order we think that you will like the drinks best 
based off of all the drinks that you have previously rated. If no drinks were found matching the 
combination of flavors you selected, a "No Results Found" message is displayed on the top of 
the Search By Flavors page so that you can edit your search criteria.

Favorites Drinks
To view all of your favorite drinks, select the "Favorite Drinks" icon. Your "Favorite Drinks" 
will then appear with the list of all of the drinks that you have added to your favorites in 
alphabetical order. You may click on a drink to go to the info page at any time and from there 
you can change your rating for that individual drink. If you want to remove a drink, select 
the "Edit Drinks" button. Checkboxes will appear next to each drink. Check the checkboxes 
next to all of the drinks you want to remove, then press the "Remove" button.

Advanced Search
To find a drink that is in a certain category and contains certain ingredients (and/or) flavors, 
select the "Advanced Search" icon. This will take you to the view of the Advanced Search page. 
This search can be used as a combination of search by name, search by category, search by flavor, 
and search by ingredient if you are wanting to use a combination of the more simple search 
features. Simply click on the kind of search that you want, for example select "ingredients" 
and you can pick ingredients that you want the drinks in your search results to contain, and 
then you can also select "flavors" and select flavor complexities you are looking for. 
The advanced search will combine your wishes and give you drinks that have both the ingredients 
that you are looking for as well as the flavors that you are looking for. You may try any 
combination of the searches. The results page will appear and has the same format as 
described below in the "Results Page" section. If you are not happy with your results, 
you can go back to your advanced search at any time and change the details of your search 
criteria. If there are no drinks that match your search criteria, "No Results Found" will 
be displayed on the top of the current "Advanced Search" page. Your search criteria will be 
saved, so you can clear or change your criteria as you wish and then retry the search.

Try Something New
To quickly find a new drink that you have not yet rated, select the "Try Something New" 
icon. Once you select the "Try Something New" icon, you will be immediately be directed to 
the results page with drinks that we think you will like the most based on all of the drinks 
you have already rated. This results page has the same format as the page described in the 
"Results Page" section below. This list of drinks will be more tailored to your taste preferences 
with the more drinks that you accurately rate. This is meant to be our "one-click" recommendation 
that gives you a drink suggestions that you will like in the quickest manner possible.

Results Page
The Results Page displays pictures of the drink glasses that match your results with 
ratings underneath them. The rating will be yellow stars if that is what you rated the drink,
and red stars if that is our predicted rating for you. There will also be an 'x' next to the 
picture of the drink glass. If you do not like that drink suggestion, you can push the 'x' and 
a different suggestion will appear if there is another one.

Drink Info Page
This page displays a drink's ingredients, description, and an image of the type of glass 
the drink uses. At the bottom there are stars displayed which you can select and thus rate 
the drink. If you have previously rated the drink that you are currently viewing, you can 
rerate the drink with the original method. Under the image of the drink glass is a 
"Add to Favorites" button that when selected, adds this drink to your Favorite Drinks 
list for future viewing